# The final assignment of computational physics: The Drunkard Step

### Name :郭明达
### Number：2014301020111
### Date：23.Dec.2016

## 1.Background

In this summer holiday, I participated in the CUPT( China Undergraduate Physics Tournament) and analysed one problem related to the randomness

### Invent yourself   

Truly random numbers are a very valuable and rare resource. Design, produce, and test a mechanical device for producing random numbers.  Analyse  to what extent the randomness 
produced is safe against ering tamp
Based on the previous research, I had the fundamental knowledge of random number, even if this problem urged that we should produce the truly
random number, which was irrelated to the problem I told in this paper.

## 2.Abstract

In this essay, we consider this kind of system, where random occupy the important position, this system is known as stochastic system.These systems are generally contain a large number of "freedom", such as a large number of water molecules in a drop of rain, or spins in a ferromagnet.
In this system, although in theory, each particle movement can be determined by the laws of mechanics, but it will be a differential equation of astronomical,lead to the impossibility of practical solution.For this case, we use the theory of probability to describe the system, making the original system simliar to the stochastic system on some macroscopic properties we are interested in.Through exploring the random system, we can understand the real system.
When dealing with stochastic system, if we want to use experiments to explore its regularity, according to Kolmogorov Law of Large Numbers, the number of experiments should be very big,. The reality of the experiment will inevitably time-consuming, difficult to achieve.Out of this consideration, we can use the numerical calculation method, random Numbers generated by random number generator using a computer the rapid computing capacity, hundreds of thousands of times experiment task.
In a lot of random process, what we are interested in is the issues of random walk. Random walk problem of one dimensional case, refers to a particle initial point is located in the origin, after every time after the same time interval, walking to the right or to left, the probability of two direction could be the same, also may be different as well as that step length may be within the scope of a random.The two-dimensional arbitrary direction, each step of the cases, the other properties are similar and one dimensional.

## 3.Body content

### 1.Random walking in one-dimension

Here we consider a typical problem of one-dimensional random walk. Particles' initial point are located at x = 0, step length is 1, fixed time interval between adjacent two steps (steps it is proportional to the time), the probabilities of each step to the left and right are 0.5.We assume that there are 5000 of the same particles, the average properties of observe their movement.
Their changeable relationship between the distance from the origin and steps are

As we can see from this graph, the average distance from the origin of particles in this system remains near zero.According to the theory of probability, the probability of particles to the left to the right are the same which suggest that the average distance from the origin should to 0.The numerical results and theoretical results are consistent.
Their changeable relationship between the sqaure of the distance from the origin and steps are

The mean square of the x shows approximate linear relationship with steps. This linear relationship has also appeared in the one-dimensional diffusion system, suggesting that the random walk process is the problem of "analogous diffusion".
Next we will generalize the condition, every step length are a value between 1 ~ + 1, and take the probability of each value is constant.
The changeable relationship between the two steps are


As shown on the graph, the mean value of x fluctuates near zero and the mean square of x has the approximate linear relationshp with steps, too.

### 2.Distinctive probabilities in random walk problem

Here we review the situation where turn left and right movement probabilities are not same.Probability is 0.75 with we walking to the right and that to the left is 0.25, the fixed step size is 1, observe two average change with steps for relationships


The figure shows that the average value of x increases with number linearly and its average square and steps demonstrate a quadratic relationship, which conform to the conclusion of the theory of possibility.

### 3.Random walking and diffusion

Here we discuss the similarity between the random walk and diffusion.Select a large number of random walkers, simulate its changeable relationship between density with time in space. 
In one dimensional case, we obtain

The figure shows that the peak value of density curve drops with the increase of time. At the same time, the total area stays while the width increases.
In the two-dimensional case, we obtain



Pay attention to three different picture of z axis range here. Obviously, two-dimensional situation has the same conclusion as one dimension. And this kind of behavior in accordance with our intuitive sense of a diffusion process, that is we drop a certain of diffusion substance at one single point in inital time, then it spread towards all directions with the centre of this point until the densities are the same everywhere.

### 4. The change of entropy in two dimension

Here we consider a two-dimensional system and research that how the entropy changes. We only take into the the consideration of single particle. When the two dimensional system has the length of 30 lattices, we have the relationship between the entropy and time 

As we can see, with time increasing, the entropy value rises but its growth speed is reduced.Eventually it will converge to a constant value.

## 4.Conclusion

Through the numerical calculation based on the Python language, we may draw conclusions of the process of random walk
1. For one dimensional and so on May be random walk, step length must be around when the near zero, and the distance from the origin average distance square average linear increase.About step random (1 ~ + 1 May), the conclusion remains the same, only the increase of the distance square average velocity decrease.
2. For random walk around may, when about step must, distance average linear gain, quadratic form distance square average increase.
(3) to a peacekeeping two-dimensional random walk process, when the population many, its density at various points in the displayed the diffusion behavior, is a kind of diffusion.
4. In two-dimensional random walk system, as the time increases, system's entropy increase, growth rate is reduced, and eventually converges to a constant value.
These results with the theory of probability and our intuition is the result of the match.This prove that, based on the results of numerical calculation of the Python language has great effect on random simulation, the result is credible.
